Title on screen: Happening Scholarship:
A Response to "The Red Wheelbarrow"
Daniel Anderson UNC-Chapel Hill
iamdan@unc.edu @iamdan.
Typing: The Red Wheelbarrow
So much depends
upon
a red wheel
barrow
In the lower left, a thumbnail video
shows a man talking and a caption:
Professor Geoffrey Sirc,
University of Minnesota
Typing continues: glazed with rain
water
beside the white
chickens.
An excerpt from the article "Resisting
Entropy" shows on screen.
A cursor types in the lower right:
a red wheel barrow
glazed with rain
water
In the lower right, a browser
appears. A search is entered
and the word blot is highlighted.
In the lower left, a cursor types: The
opening is based upon a rhetorical trick,
a question left hanging.
"So much" of what?
A grey ribbon appears across the
bottom of the screen
An eraser moves over the grey ribbon
revealing text: "so much depends /"
gestures vaguely, then lands with a thud
upon upon.
An image of a laptop appears; the
laptop screen shows a red guitar.
Hands in front of the guitar hold
a cell phone.
A browser shows an article: Modern
American Poetry On "The Red Wheelbarrow"
Phrases in the article are highlighted:
working class; after the rain
The image with the laptop is panned up
to show a scene outside a window
Outside the window a chicken and
a garden appear
In the upper right, thumbnail video
of Geoff Sirc appears.
Text appears at the top of the video:
I love the red on the new cover design
Opaque imagery showing a chicken
appears on the lower left
Opaque raindrops appear as a layer on
top of the video
Opaque clouds move as a layer over
the surface of the video
An image with header information from
an e-mail message appears
In the right half of the video, an opaque
image of the author speaking appears
A scanned page shows the title of a
book: Ambient Rhetoric
A passage from the book page appears:
Rhetoric has a material dimension, and
it is an embodied and embedded practice.
Rhetoric is an emergent result of
environmentally situated and interactive
engagements, redolent of a world that
affects us, that persuades us
prior to symbolicity.
Geoff Sirc appears in the upper left;
the video is resized, then fades out.
Opaque beneath a layer of text, the author
appears speaking in a lecture hall.
Windows stacked on a laptop screen
appear; the top image shows a laptop.
The image is panned to show a
scene outside of a window.
The image is panned back to show
the laptop.
An image showing a projector and a laptop
comes forward.
An image showing a red guitar and hands
holding a cell phone comes forward.
Opaque clouds move over the top layer
of the entire video.
An image of two hands, one rubbing the
other, comes forward.
An image of a field of wheat
comes forward.
The cursor cycles through the stacked
video windows.
The image with the guitar and cell phone
comes forward.
The image with a scene outside a window
comes forward and is made opaque.
Beneath the window scene, the hand begins
strumming the guitar.
The image of hands is moved to the top
and made opaque.
The image of wheat is moved to the top
The image of a projector and a laptop
is moved to the top and made opaque.
Text appears on screen; a phrase is
highlighted: cut up into a series of
brief, contiguous fragments, which we
shall call lexias. The lexia will include
sometimes a few words, sometimes
several sentences.
On the screen, images are cycled: wheat,
hands, a projector, a guitar.
Beneath the images, the author is faintly
visible, singing in the lecture hall.
Images are cycled and blended: moving
hands, a red guitar, the author singing.
A scanned article appears; a phrase is
highlighted: This is so limited,
it's unbearable.
A scanned passage from an article appears;
a pencil highlights a phrase: One of the
subtexts of Composition as a Happening is
the realization that art criticism
in general offers more compelling theory
than Composition's canon, particularly
(in this case) in relation to
the sublime.
Images are cycled and mixed: a hand
strumming a guitar, the author singing.
A search box that is part of a PDF file
appears; the file shows a book cover: S/Z
A term is typed in the search box: layer;
a page appears
The page is cropped and a passage is
highlighted: Analytically, connotation
is determined by two spaces: a sequential
space, a series of orders, a space subject
to the successivity of sentences, in which
meaning proliferates by layering; and
an agglomerative space, certain areas of
the text correlating other meanings
outside the material text and, with them,
forming "nebulae" of signifieds.
Another passage appears with a highlighted
phrase: a textuality inflected more
by adjudication than imagination.
Images are cycled: moving hands,
wheat, a projector.
Typing appears, and then moves up the
screen: English Composition as a Happening
is Student Text as Blue Balloon. The
typing moves up out of the video frame
Images cycle and mix on screen
The typing text reappears, moving down
the video frame: Where is the place
for spiritual intensification in
Mainstream Composition's curriculum?
Multiple layers of blended imagery
play out on screen:
A projector and laptop, a hand strumming
a guitar, moving hands, wheat.
Beneath opaque images, the author appears,
arms outstretched, singing.
Opaque hands massage each other blended
with wheat, the guitar, the author.
A grey ribbon appears in the lower screen;
an eraser reveals text beneath the ribbon:
Even in the most radically challenging
modernist art, there is an aesthetic,
a sense of formal interest,
a shimmering sheen.
Images cycle and mix on screen: the author
singing, a hand strumming a guitar.
At the bottom of the video, a list of
works cited scrolls through sources
Images cycle and mix on screen
The images disappear.
Across the desktop is text:
This machine performs
critique with compassion.
At the top of the screen, the cursor
clicks a menu that reads "Stop Recording."